[Music]
five years ago I experienced a bit of
what it must have been like to be Alice
in Wonderland Penn State asked me a
communications teacher to teach a
communications class for engineering
students and I was scared really scared
scared of these students with their big
brains and their big books and their big
unfamiliar words but as these
conversations unfolded I experienced
what Alice must have when she went down
that rabbit hole and saw that door to a
whole new world that's just how I felt
as I had those conversations with the
students I was amazed at the ideas that
they that they had and I wanted others
to experience this Wonderland as well
and I believe the key to opening that
door is great communication we
desperately need great communication
from our scientists and engineers in
order to change the world our scientists
and engineers are the ones that are
tackling our grandest challenges from
energy to environment to healthcare
among others and if we don't know about
it and understand it then the work isn't
done and I believe it's our
responsibility as non scientists to have
these interactions but these great
conversations can't occur if our
scientists and engineers don't invite us
in to see their Wonderland so scientists
and engineers please talk nerdy to us I
want to share a few keys on how you can
do that to make sure that we can see
that your science is sexy and that your
engineering is engaging first question
to answer for us so what tell us why
your science is relevant to us don't
just tell me that you study trabeculae
but tell me that you study trabeculae
which is the mesh like structure of our
bones because it's important
understanding and treating osteoporosis
and when you're describing your science
beware of jargon jargon is a barrier to
our understanding of your ideas sure you
can say spatial and temporal but why not
just say space and time which is so much
more accessible to us
making your ideas accessible is not the
same as dumbing it down instead as I
ensign said make everything as simple as
possible but no simpler you can clearly
communicate your science without
compromising the ideas a few things to
consider are having examples stories and
analogies those are ways to engage and
excite us about your content and when
presenting your work drop the bullet
points have you ever wondered why
they're called bullet points
what do bullets do bullets kill and they
will kill your presentation a slide like
this is not only boring but it relies
too much on the language area of our
brain and causes us to become
overwhelmed instead this example slide
by Genevieve Brown is much more
effective it's showing that the special
structure of trabeculae are so strong
that they actually inspired the unique
design of the Eiffel Tower and the trick
here is to use a single readable
sentence that the audience can key into
if they get a bit lost and then provide
visuals which appeal to our other senses
and create a deeper sense of
understanding of what's being described
so I think these are just a few keys
that can help the rest of us to open
that door and see the wonderland that is
science and engineering and because the
engineers that I've worked with have
taught me to become really in touch with
my inner nerd I want to summarize with
an equation take your science subtract
your bullet points and your jargon
divide by relevance meaning share what's
relevant to the audience and multiply it
by the passion that you have for this
incredible work that you're doing and
that is going to equal incredible
interactions that are full of
understanding and so scientists and
engineers when you've solved this
equation by all means talk nerdy to me
[Applause]
[Music]